Honeypot-PHP 0.1.0 README
=========================

This document was last updated on Mon Oct 15 00:01:32 2007.  Please see
the file COPYING for licensing and warranty information.

Overview
========
PHP bindings for the Project Honeypot (http://projecthoneypot.org/) HTTP
blacklist.  Honeypot-PHP can be used to block comment spammers,
malicious bots, and other forms of abuse.  Note that you'll need an API
key from Project Honeypot order to use this library.  See the
Installation and Usage sections below for instructions on installing and
using Honeypot-PHP.

The latest stable version of this software can always be found at the
following URL:

  http://pablotron.org/software/honeypot-php/ 

More information about Project Honeypot, along with information about
contributing can be found at the Project Honeypot web site, at

  http://projecthoneypot.org/

Note that Honeypot-PHP is distributed under the terms of the revised BSD
license.  A copy of the license can be found in the file COPYING, and at
the top of the file honeypot.php.


Installation
============
The easiest way to install Honeypot-PHP is to just copy the honeypot.php
file into your project and require it directly.  If you have PEAR
installed -- most recent PHP installations do -- you can install
Honeypot-PHP system-wide from the command-line like so:

  sudo pear install http://pablotron.org/files/php/Honeypot-0.1.0.tgz


Usage
=====
Using Honeypot-PHP is straightforward.  Create a Honeypot instance using
your API key, then pass it a hostname or IP address.

  # API key (from projecthoneypot.org)
  $api_key = 'asdf1234asdf';

  # ip (usually $_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR'])
  $addr = '127.1.10.1';

  # create new honeypot instance
  $honeypot = new Honeypot($api_key);  

  # check ip
  if ($honeypot->is_ok($addr)) {
    echo 'address is okay';
  } else {
    echo 'address is NOT OKAY';
  }

You can override the default age and threat thesholds by passing
additional arguments to the constructor, like this:

  $honeypot = new Honeypot($api_key, array(
    'ok_age'    => 300, # set age threshold to 300 days
    'ok_threat' => 50,  # set threat level threshold to 50
  ));

If you need more details, you can use check() instead of is_ok().  This
method allows you to view the age, threat level, and type of entry in
the Project Honeypot blacklist.  

  # check the address
  $result = $honeypot->check($addr);

  if ($result) {
    echo "age: {$result['age']}, threat: {$result['threat']}";
  } else {
    echo 'no blacklist entry for address';
  }

Finally, if you pass the result of check() to result_info(), you'll get
a boolean (like is_ok) plus a printable string describing the result:

  # check the address
  $result = $honeypot->check($addr);

  # get result description
  $info = $honeypot->result_info($result);
  
  # get opts
  $ok = $info['ok'] ? 'ok' : 'NOT OKAY';
  $why = $info['why'];

  echo "<p>address is $ok: $why</p>";

See test.php for a working example.


About the Author
================
Paul Duncan <pabs@pablotron.org>
http://pablotron.org/
